All right.
So now what we want to do is we want to apply cool Ohm's law to cases where we have more than two point
charges.
The first problem here that I'm going to look at we're going to have three point charges there all along
the x axis and I've given you the magnitudes of those three point charges in a second problem I have
the same three charges.
However now they're in the x y plane.
It's kind of like a two dimensional problem.
So how would that change how we apply cool Ohm's Law to this particular problem.
Okay so let's go ahead and solve both of these problems all right.
So here's my first problem My goal is to find out what is the net force acting on this charge Q3.
So let me go ahead and kind of just draw it over here here's Q3 right here and Q3 is negative saying
go ahead and maybe just remind myself that's a negative charge here.
All right.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So cool Ohm's law you might see a rate like this k q a QB divided by our Squared R squared or r rather
is the distance between the two charges a and b Sometimes It's written with a different constant in
the front instead of this value K is sometimes written as one over for Pi Epsilon 0.
And that's OK if that's what's done in your textbook.
The only thing to realize is that that value K is actually equal to one over for Pi Epsilon 0.
And if you substitute the numbers you look this up in your textbook you say look this substitute everything
in your calculator you should get nine times tend to the nine in the units four that are going to be
Newton's meters squared per Coolum squared.
And you need those units in order to have Newtons for the force at the end of the day.
All right.
So how do you find the force.
Well let's first look at them in pairs cool Ohm's Law works with two charges at a time.
So we have to do is if we're looking for the total force on Q3 Well there's going to be an interaction
between Q3 and Q1.
So let's go ahead and draw what is the direction of that force between Q1 and Q3.
Q1 is a positive charge and Q3 is a negative charge which means they are attracted to each other.
So if I go ahead and draw the force that means Q3 wants to get closer to Q1.
There is an attractive force there.
So we're going to go ahead and we're going to call this fourth F one.
So the direction has to be to the left because it's attracted to Q1.
All right what else do we have.
We also have an interaction here between the charge Q2 which is negative and the charge Q3 which is
also negative.
So if I'm looking at all the forces acting on Q3 that means it's also trying to be being repelled by
Q2.
So that means over here I should probably have another force and I'm going to label this one F2.
So this is interaction of Q2 and Q3.
All right let's remind ourselves that this here is the charge Q3.
So now the only thing that's left is we have to find how big those two forces are.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So the fourth F one in order to find its magnitude.
Well all you have to do now is use Coombs law.
So f 1 is going to be equal to let's use this first equation over here.
K is our constant nine times tend to the 9.
Our first charge here we're going to call it Q1 our second charge now is going to be the charge Q3 the
one we're interested in and now it's divided by r squared and our squared is the distance between both
of those charges.
If I look on the figure here it would be the distance between this guy and Q3.
So let's go ahead and call this a distance here.
D 1.
Okay.
So I have to add this to Coombs law D1 squared.
All right.
So all you have to do now is substitute in all the values.
So for K we get nine times tend to the nine.
I'm not going to write the units.
Q One is listed over here is five micro cool alone that's five times 10 to the negative 6 if I want
to convert into columns Q 3 you know Q3 is negative 2.
All right.
Micro cool.
I'm actually just going to write as to micro Coolum I'm gonna drop the negative sign because the negative
sign here is only going to tell me something about the direction of the force but we know the direction
of the force because one charge is positive in the other one is negative.
So there is no real reason to put negative signs here if you're looking at interaction between point
charges we automatically know the direction of the force just by looking at.
Are they both positive is one positive and the other one's negative.
All right.
And now we also have to divide by the distance squared.
Now in this case this is the distance between Q1 and Q3.
If I look down at the figure I've given you some distances here you should see that this distance should
be zero point six zero point six meters.
And I have to square that value all right now be a little bit careful when you enter this in the calculator.
I did this and hopefully I did it correctly at the end I get to zero point to five Newtons.
Now if you kept the negative sign here you would get a negative zero point two five Newtons but negative
simply tell me tells me that the force is attractive.
OK.
So that means that this force here is zero point to five Newtons and it's pointing to the left.
All right.
Now we have to find the magnitude of this other force.
So let's go ahead and we're going to apply cool Ohm's law yet again.
So again now in this case it's K the two charges you're acting now or Q2 and Q3 Q2 Q3 and now it's going
to be divided by a different distance.
Right.
The distance is much smaller.
So we're going to call this D2 D2 and I have to square that value.
All right let's go ahead and substitute in all the values so we get nine times tend to the nine for
our K constant Q Q2 has a magnitude of negative 3.
Again I'm not too worried about the magnitude that tells me the direction of the force.
Tend to the negative 6 because we're dealing with micro columns 2 3 still the same 2 times tend to the
negative 6.
And now I have to divide by this distance this distance is zero point two and I have to square that
value you place everything in your calculator again.
In this case here I got a stronger force I got one point three five Newtons as the magnitude of EF 2
Let's go ahead and write this on the figure.
So we get one point three five here and I get a vector that is zero point two five Newtons pointing
to the left for the red one and that's it.
All you have to do now is find what is the net force you can tell just by looking at this that the net
force is going to have to point to the right hand side.
All right.
Again my goal was define f net the definition of f net as a vector means you have to add up all of the
forces acting on the charge in this case I have two of them.
OK.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to assume that everything pointing to the right hand side is
going to be a positive force and everything pointing to the left hand side is going to be a negative
force.
So at the end if you want to add both of these up I would say there is a positive one point three five
Newton force acting to the right and there is a negative zero point to five Newton force acting to the
left.
So my net force at the end of the day simply have to evaluate both of those.
My net force at the end should be one point one Newtons in the direction since it's a positive value
the direction of the force has to be like this.
This is the direction of f net it's in the same direction as the force F two.
Okay so there's a nice simple application of cool Ohm's law when there's more than two charges.
Let's go ahead and look at problem number two now.